#COMP 206


## Assignment 1


**Due on Wednesday, January 30th, 2012 at 11:30am**


In your user home directory, create a subdirectory for your homework, you can name it as "*homework*" directory. At the command line, *cd* to your source directory and create a sub-directory called *hw1*. This assignment shows how to properly use the Unix environment.


###1. Redirection operator

Which command you can use to **count how many files and directories are in the current directory** (not including the files and directories in the subdirectories)? We assume that there are a huge number of files and directories in the current directory. It is not appropriate to count the number manually.

		ls | wc -l


###2. Regular Expression

Write a command to find all lines which contain dollar values from $10.00 to $99.99 in file transactions.txt. Note that the dollar values are in the following format: (1) begin with ‘$’; (2) keep two digits (tenths and hundredths) after the decimal point. You may want to create your own transactions.txt to test if your command works properly.

> The "-w" option allows us to see the price as a word. It then matches all words starting with a '$' sign followed by a decimal number between 10.00 and 99.99.

		cat transactions.txt | grep -w \$[1-9][0-9]\.[0-9][0-9]


###3. File Permission, Regular Expression & Redirection

Write a command to find and list all the files in current working directory that can be read, written and execute by you, and can be read and executed by group, but cannot be changed by the group, and cannot be read, written and executed by others. Your command should list the results in a file named filePermission.info.

		ls -l | grep "^\-rwxr\-x\-\-\-" > filePermission.info


###4. [Bash File](attachFileInfo.sh)

Write a bash script called *attachFileInfo.sh* to get total number of lines and the last modification date of a file. The file name is given by an argument on the command line. For example, I will run this script by typing **“./attachFileInfo.sh myFile”** on the command line. The script attachFileInfo.sh should print the **file name**, **total number of lines** and the **last modification date** at the end of the file without changing the file content. For example, myFile has two lines:

	This is my File.
	This is file is used for testing your bash script.

After running attachFileInfo.sh, the file information will be appended to the file, and myFile will have three lines as below:

	This is my File.
	This is file is used for testing your bash script.
	myFile: 2 lines, modified on 2013-01-15
